1   Just back from a tour of several Arabian Gulf1 countries, a woman recalls how jumpy she felt talking to men there. “Not because of what they said, ”she explains,“ but what they did with their eyes. ”Instead of the occasional blink, Arabs lowered their lids so slowly and languorously that she was convinced they were falling asleep. In Japan eye contact is a key to the way you feel about someone. And the less of it,the better. What a Westerner considers an honest look in the eye , the Oriental takes as a lack of respect and a personal affront. Even when shaking hands or bowing — and especially when conversing6 — only an occasional glance into the other person’s face is considered polite. The rest of the time , great attention should be paid to fingertips, desktops,and the warp and woof of the carpet.“Always keep your shoes shined in Tokyo, ”advises an electronics representative who has spent several days there .“You can bet a lot of Japanese you meet will have their eyeson them. ”

2   The degree to which a bowing or lowering of the body is emphasized varies from one culture to another . in many cultures today the full bow or other dramatic lowering of the body is generally reserved for formal occasions such as greeting a head of state or monarch. for example, british commoners standing before the queen or being honored by royalty in a ceremony of knighthood would be expected to bow, curtsey, or kneel. as part of their religious practices some christians kneel, catholics genuflect, and muslims kowtow3 , an extreme form of body lowering in which the forehead is brought to the ground. although bowing, as a worldwide phenomenon, has been on the decrease in recent decades, it has survived in german culture and exists to an even greater degree in modern japan, where bows are an integral part of everyday social interaction . in the united states, however, bowing or any type of submissive body posture is particularly irritating, for it tends to connote undue formality, aristocracy, and a nonverbal denial of egalitarianism. nowhere is bowing more important to the process of communication today than in japanese society. as an indication of how pervasive bowing is in present-day japan, some experts point out that“ some female department store employees have the sole function of bowing to customers at department store escalators and that many japanese bow repeatedly to invisible partners at the other end of a telephone line”. bowing initiates interaction between two japanese , it enhances and embellishes many parts of the ensuing conversation, and it is used to signal the end of a conversation. although westerners, in a very general sense, understand the meaning attached to bowing, appropriate bowing in japan is an intricate and complex process. reciprocal bowing is determined largely by rank. in fact, it is possible to tell the relative social status of the two communicators by the depth of their bows ( the deeper the bow, the lower the status) . when bowing deeply, it is conventional to lean slightly to the right to avoid bumping heads. the person of lower status is expected to initiate the bow, and the person of higher status determines when the bow is completed. people of equivalent status are expected to bow at the same depth while starting and finishing at the same time .
3   In the United States, where“ casualness”is considered a great virtue, people often sit with feet on chairs or even desks. They sometimes sit with their backsides ( buttocks) on tables and desks as a way of expressing their individuality or career attitude. They feel comfortable crossing their legs and sitting with one ankle on the other knee . Poor posture — slumping oneself over while sitting in a chair and placing feet on whatever object is around — is a common U. S. behavior. It is designed to show that the person is casual, honest, sincere, and“ just one of the folks ”. In the United States, even millionaires, corporation presidents, government leaders, and movie stars try to pretend they are ordinary people by using“the U. S. slouch ”and“ the feet-on-the -furniture”maneuver.

　　Unfortunately, other countries interpret this behavior as being sloppy and as reflecting a general lack of alertness, interest, and respect. People from the United States do not usually realize that what they regard as casualness is viewed very differently and very negatively by many people around the world.

　　People in many cultures are expected to sit erect. Such cultures include many countriesin Latin America, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East. In the United States, slouching is acceptable and is a positive sign of being casual and friendly. In the United States, crossing legs is a sign of good etiquette . Many cultures say thatcrossing legs is okay, but placing the ankle on the knee while crossing one’s legs is totally unacceptable .

　　One reason for not putting the ankle on the knee is that when you do so, one foot or the sole of the shoe is usually pointing at someone . This is a very severe insult in many countries around the world, especially Muslim countries. Under few circumstances should you point your foot at anyone , because the foot is cons idered the least sacred part of the body in many societies. In some countries such as Nepal, pointing the foot at a cow is an outrage , because the cow is a sacred animal. In Buddhist countries, pointing the foot at statue of the Buddha is a severe offense. Moving objects with the feet is very rude in Thailand, Nepal, and Taiwan. In Bangladesh, you should not touch books with a foot or shoe; if you do, you must make an elaborate apology.

　　As you can tell, posture is a very strong messenger. It conveys much about a particu lar person. Posture ( in many cultures) says something about the person’s honesty, alertness, intelligence, religiousness, respect, and overall decency — or the opposite of all of these ! Posture tells people whether they want to get to know a stranger, and it also tells what to think about the people already known.
4  Human life is a process. a number of psychologists have attempted to identify the particular tasks that must be accomplished at each stage of development. successful completion of tasks at one stage means that the individual normally proceeds to the next stage and a few set of tasks. it is not always recognized, however, that there are new tasks for the aged1 as well as for those who are younger. aging, in other words, is a new stage in the developmental process of life .

　　What are the developmental tasks faced by the aged? some tasks are similar to those of other age groups, and some are peculiar to the elderly. in the nineteenth century, for instance, most men had no transition to retirement. typically, a man worked until disability or death. few people had to deal with the“ empty nest2 ”problem, since children either did not leave the family house or returned there to live with their elderly parents.

　　Today, when an increasing number of people are living into their seventies and eighties, there are at least five developmental tasks facing the elderly. first, the aged must come to terms with3 the physical limitations inherent in4 their stage of life. they will no longer be able to engage in certain activities as often or as successfully as they once could. second, having come to terms with the limitations, the older person must redefine the scope of his or her activities. third, the older person must find new sources for satisfying his or her needs. this may be particularly acute at the time of retirement for those who hold to the work ethic .

　　A fourth task is to reassess the criteria for self-evaluation. again, the loss of work is involved, for many americans consider themselves worthwhile because they have a fulltime job. the question the elderly person must face is“am i a worthwhile person because of the kind of individual i am, because of the various qualities i possess, or am i worthwhile only as long as i can function in some kind of job?”a man who lost his job in advertising when he was sixty-one told the author that he could not find another job in his field. he has done some freelance work, but he still mourns the loss of his job.“ i loved what i did, ”he said,“ and i resented being thrown out on the scrap heap5. there are times when i think i’m just not worth anything anymore . ”

　　Finally, the aged face the task of finding ways to give meaning and purpose to their 021 lives. this task arises throughout the individual’s life . many elderly people find challenges, struggles, and gratifications just as they did in their earlier years.
5  "An apple for the teacher"

　　American schoolchildren occasionally present an apple to the teacher. obviously the custom contains an element of bribery1 — you offer sweet fruit to authority figures to “ sweeten”2 their disposition3 . in schoolchildren’s case, the apple is offered to make their grades more favorable. therefore, the apple has more or less acquired a corrosive4 reputation and maybe for this reason, in slang english“ to applepolish ”means“ to flatter or fawn”and an applepolisher is a flatterer.

　　But the custom might also be explained as a fair payment for the teacher’s instruction. in the early days of public education, school teachers were not always salaried. often they would be paid in goods and services, offered by either the school, or the pupils or the parents. . .. therefore, the occasional gift of an apple for the teacher in today’s classroom should be a welcome reminder of the era when education was one -to-one and when teaching meant enlightening the students rather than identifying their rankings.

　　"Caps and gowns"

　　For students, the most exciting moment may be the graduation ceremony5: parents, relatives and friends are invited to the ceremony; all the graduates are wearing black square flat caps and gowns. they all await the president to announce in the end,“now, please move your tassels from right to left. ”

　　The caps and gowns worn by high school and college graduates today are survivors of the everyday dress worn by members of the academic community in medieval europe. the majority of scholars in the middle ages6 were churchmen, or soon to become so, and their dress was often strictly regulated by the universities where they taught and studied. the standard clerical dress throughout europe was the long black cope. the original preference for black was changed in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, as such colors as red, violet and purple came into fashion; but by the renaissance black was back, as the color black symbolized simple and plain, or austere way of life in the sixteenth century. with few exceptions, modern universities keep that ceremonial austerity.

　　The origin of the square flat cap, or mortarboard7 , is obscure, though it probably derives from the medieval biretta . such a tufted square cap is considered the badge of the 024 mastership , and is later adopted by undergraduates and schoolboys. the term mortarboard does not appear in english until the 1850 s. the tassel that graduates transfer from one side to another as a signal of their elevation is an outgrowth of the medieval tuft. the tuft still appears on the modern biretta, worn by bishops throughout the church of rome 
6   A world with out language

　　It may be that when the world was young, no one knew how to talk. people had to learn to speak just like babies do. when no one knew how to tell, how did anyone learn? that is a mystery that remains unsolved even today.

　　The stories behind words

    Lunch perhaps comes from an old spanish word lonje , a slab of1 ham. we may get our word from a lump of bread, but whether lunch comes from ham or bread, it meant a hunk of something to eat.

　　Atlas an atlas is a strong man, and also a book of maps. the story of this word begins a long time ago in greece. the ancient greeks believed that their gods had once been a race of giants2 called titans. the titans fought with another group of gods called olympians, and the olympians won. atlas was a titan. he was punished for fighting be having to stand at the western end of the world, holding the sky on his head and hands, so that it would not fall on the world and smash everything.

　　After the ancient greek religion died out, the idea of atlas changed. from holding up the sky with his head and hands, he came to be thought of as holding the world on his shoulders. mercator3, a map maker of the sixteenth century, used a picture of atlas on the cover of a book of maps, so a book of maps came to be called an atlas.

　　The word has still another meaning. the top bone of the neck is called atlas because it supports the head.

　　Good-bye or good-by good-bye is a blessing; originally it was god be with ye, and in the course of time it became one word. many of our greetings are good wishes, but we say them with so little thought that we forget this. when we say good morning, good evening, good night, and so on, what we are really saying is,“ i hope you will have a good morning ( or evening, or night) . ”

　　Daisy the daisy has a little golden eye , like a tiny sun . perhaps this is the reason the english people named it day’s eye, or perhaps they chose the name because the english daisy closes at night. the english loved their daisies, which were pink and red, as well as 028 white. six hundred years or so ago, the english poet chaucer4 said:

　　The daisy, or else the eye of the day, / / the queen, and prettiest flower of all
7   Culture shock is precipitated1 by the anxiety that results from losing all our familiar signs and symbols of social intercourse. those signs or cues include the thousand and one 2 ways in which we orient3 ourselves to the situation of daily life ; when to shake hands and what to say when we meet people , when and how to give tips, how to make purchases, when to accept and when to refuse invitations, when to take statements seriously and when not. these cues, which may be words, gestures, facial expressions, customs, or norms, are acquired by all of us in the course of growing up and are as much a part of our culture as the language we speak or the beliefs we accept. all of us depend for our peace of mind and our efficiency on hundreds of these cues, most of which we do not carry on the level of conscious awareness.

　　Now when an individual enters a strange culture, all or most of these familiar cues are removed. he or she is like a fish out of water4 . no matter how broad-minded5 or full of good will you may be , a series of props6 have been knocked from under you, followed by a feeling of frustration7 and anxiety. people react to the frustration in much the same way. first they reject the environment which causes the discomfort.“the ways of the host country are bad because they make us feel bad. ”when foreigners in a strange land get together to grouse about8 the host country and its people , you can be sure they are suffering from culture shock. another phase of culture shock is regression. the home environment suddenly assumes a tremendous importance. to the foreigner everything becomes irrationally glorified. all the difficulties and problems are forgotten and only the good things back home are remembered. it usually takes a trip home to bring one back to reality.

　　Some of the symptoms of culture shock are excessive washing of the hands, excessive concern over drinking water, food dishes, and bedding; fear of physical contact with attendants, the absent-minded stare; a feeling of helplessness and a desire for dependence on long-term residents of one’s own nationality; fits of anger over minor frustrations; great concern over minor pains and eruptions of the skin; and finally, that terrible longing to be back home.
8   Bulls and humans alike slipped and slid on the cobblestone streets, but the first of pamplona ’s annual runs with the bulls was largely free of injury as thousands of daredevils2 sprinted with the half-ton animals.

　　Some runners, sounding disappointed, said they would seek out greater danger in coming days as the widely popular, centuries-old san fermin3 festival serves up six more runs this week.

　　“It was a bit timid, to be honest. nowhere near as scary as in the books, ”said johnny, 26, from new zealand, here for the first time after reading about san fermin on a website.

　　“Tomorrow we are going to try and run a bit closer to the bulls and get a bit more adrenaline, ”added his friend, richard, 26 , cradling the day’s first beer.

　　The streets were slightly slick with morning dew as six fighting bulls and six steers dashed from a corral along the 900 -yard course through the city’s old quarter to the bull ring.

　　At two sharp turns, several bulls slipped and went down with a heavy thud, and two bulls were separated from the pack. and a minor pileup of fallen runners formed at the tunnel leading into the bullring. bulls jumped or stepped over the runners.

　　Thousands of people watching in the street and from balconies shouted as the bulls rumbled through the city’s old quarter, taking just over two and a half minutes to cover course.

　　No one was gored, although four people who were trampled were hospitalized for treatment of head, chest, rib or leg injuries. none was seriously hurt.

　　The steers are meant to keep the bulls more or less in a cluster — a spooked, isolated bull is very dangerous

　　The fiesta 4, famed for its all-night street parties, dates back to the late 16 th century but gained world fame from ernest hemingway5’s novel the sun also rises. tens of thousands from all over the world have been pouring into pamplona for the annual festival ever since .
9  The drums beat as the dragon boats race . This must be mainland China or Taiwan, right? Think again. These days the traditional Chinese boats are racing in places as unlikely as England and Italy. Dragon -boat racing was introduced to the world in 1982, when the Hong Kong Dragon Boat Festival1 included international competitors. In the 1990s, dragon-boat racing caught on2 in many non-Asian countries. It quickly became the world’s fastest-growing water sport. What’s the appeal3 ? Dragon-boat racing combines athletic competition , cultural interest and just plain fun.

　　The boats are manned4 by 20 paddlers, one drummer and one person who steers. Nearly 18 meters long, the colorful boats resemble dragons with elaborate heads and tails. The team paddles to the beat of the drum. The boats speed along, rising high and moving smoothly along the water. In about three to six minutes, they cross the finish line.

　　The races recall Qu Yuan, a patriotic poet in ancient China. When he drowned in the Mi Luo River, the people raced out to save him. But they were too late .

　　Dragon boats are now racing in towns and cities around the world. Students, working people and older people race for fun and exercise . Serious paddlers compete for cups and medals. In the United States, the Pacific Northwest International Dragon Cup is in its 11 th year. In Toronto, about 250, 000 spectators turn out for dragon-boat races each summer. Sweden has over 400 teams. Poland, too, has several dragon-boat clubs.

　　There are even consulting businesses to help people organize local dragon-boat events. They help with site selection, team training and safety. Besides that, non-profit organizations hold competitions to raise money.

　　And various regional and worldwide races — too many to name — keep serious paddlers busy. In September 2003 , Rome hosted the Club Crews World Championship. In 2004, world-class teams gathered in Shanghai for the fifth International Dragon Boat Federation races. In 2005 . . .

　　Going to Europe this summer? If so, just remember: When in Rome, do as the Chinese do! 
10  Get ready to say goodbye to the old , hello to the new! What’s the occasion ? The coming of the New Year.

　　Many western cultures measure their days with the solar calendar. Therefore, they observe 1 the coming of the New Year on January 1. Cultures in Asia and the Middle East use other calendars, such as the more ancient lunar calendar. They celebrate the New Year at other times. Events and rituals vary from country to country. But in each place, New Year celebrations are a big deal.

　　Most world cultures have been celebrating the New Year for centuries. The earliest New Year celebrations took place during spring or harvest time. With better weather ahead, or plenty of food to eat in winter, people naturally felt like having a party! As the days became longer and as nature renewed itself, people also felt like they could have a new start. Past disappointments could be forgotten. The New Year could bring better fortune , more opportunities and new challenges. Such universal themes remain the same today.

　　New Year celebrations also involve having fun. The Hogmanay festival in Edinburgh, Scotland, features2 theater events, fireworks and dancing. During Hogmanay, Scots burn torches and barrels of tar, an old practice for keeping evil spirits away. In Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, the beach becomes the stage for a huge New Year party. During the day, thousands of people throw flowers into the sea for good luck. In the evening, they enjoy music concerts and fireworks. Everyone is supposed to wear white — the auspicious New Year color.

　　Some cultures have unusual New Year traditions. Italians throw old things out of their windows at midnight, symbolizing the departure of the old. Mexicans fire guns into the air to ward off misfortune. Danes jump off chairs exactly as the clock strikes midnight, so they can“jump”into the New Year. Greek children leave their shoes by the fireplace on New Year’s Day. They hope Saint Basil3, a popular Greek saint known for his kindness, will come and fill the shoes with gifts. In Vancouver, Canada, some people celebrate the New Year by jumping into the ocean . The water there is freezing cold! Therefore the event has been aptly named the Polar Bear Swim4. As you might expect, most people come to watch the swimmers rather than swim themselves

　　London, England, hosts an annual New Year’s Day parade that draws nearly a million spectators. The largest parade in Europe , it features bands, floats and enormous balloons. These balloons are so huge that they tower over5 nearby buildings!