1   Point at a ball and a dog will look at the ball, whereas a cat will probably look at your hand. Dogs seem to have a ready understanding of how human beings direct attention by pointing, and can follow our gestures almost as if they thought the same way we do.

　　Of course, dogs probably aren’t born knowing anything about people. We just carefully train them to look, fetch, and so on, right? Or do we? A comparative psychologist at the Max Plank Institute in Germany,named Michael Tomasello ran a series of tests on dogs,in which they had to find which sealed container had yummy dog food in it. The only hint they got was from a human being who looked at or pointed at the right container. This wasn’t hard for dogs at all.

　　But it was hard for wolves. Wolves that have been raised by people should have had the same success at finding the sealed container, but they didn’t. Even chimpanzees, which are very smart animals indeed, weren’t as fast at finding the food as dogs. What does this mean?

　　One interpretation is that dogs do, in fact, have a natural ability to understand forms of human communication. Even nine-week old puppies found the food, suggesting the skill is there before training. Wolves don’t have the skill, suggesting that it has developed in dogs since the time they branched off from their evolutionary predecessors.

　　There is debate about this idea. But Tomasello thinks that in the past fifteen thousand years, as human beings and dogs have evolved together, the basis for fido’s ability to understand what you mean may have become encoded in his genes.

2   You’ve tried everything to lose weight: portion control, fasting, liquid diets, even eating meals on a treadmill. Now, a new study suggests that maybe you should try turning out the lights. Because, at least in mice, exposure to light at night leads to weight gain. The work appears in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. [Laura Fonken et al., "Light at Night Increases Body Mass by Shifting the Time of Food Intake"]

　　Obesity is an epidemic. Maybe it’s because we eat too much and spend too much time in our seats. But another factor could be that these days we’re never really in the dark. Streetlamps and indoor light sources now brighten our nights. And that light pollution could be messing with our circadian rhythms, which control not only sleep, but metabolism. In fact, mutant mice that have no circadian clocks tend to be chunky.

　　To test the connection between photons and fat, scientists took mice and lit up their cages. And they found that mice that were exposed to even dim light at night were chubbier than mice who spent their evenings in the dark. Though they all ate the same amount, the fat mice snacked more when they were less active, perhaps failing to burn off those calories.

　　So maybe skip the night light. Especially the one that lights up when you open up the fridge.
3  Brad and Angelina. Romeo and Juliet. John, Yoko. See a pattern? We may have come a long way baby, but our female names still typically follow the man’s name.

　　Researchers searched the Web for 10 pairs of popular names and found that in 79 percent of the pairs the male name came first. Only 21 percent put the female name first. The research is published in the British Journal of Social Psychology.

　　Then the researchers asked 121 people to write down the names of imaginary traditional couples, like one where the woman cooks most of the meals, as well as the names of non-traditional couples, where the male might be a stay-at-home dad. For traditional couples the men’s names came first significantly more often. But the effect was not there for the atypical couples.

　　Similarly they had subjects write down the names of imagined gay couples and found that the partner listed first tended to be more butch than femme. And those named second tended to be more femme than butch.

　　But note this from the main author: “When people address greeting cards to couples…they often put the person that they know best first, whether female or male.” And if they know both people, they typically start with the name that matches their gender.
4  The cells of a plant'are organized into three tissue systems: dermal,vascular, and ground tissue. Each tissue system is continuous throughout theplant's body. The specific characteristics of each tissue, however, are different in the different organs ofthe plant.

　　The dermal tissue system is the "skin" of the plant. The dermal system, or epidermis,is a single layer of cells covering the entire body of the plant. The mailn function of the epidermis is to protect the plant. The epidermis also has specialized characteristics for the particular organs it covers. For example, the epidermis ofleaves and stems has a waxy coating that helps the plant conserve water, and the epidermal cells near the tips of the　plant's roots help the plant absorb water and nutrients from the soil.

　　The second tissue system-the vascular system-is the transportation system for water and nutrients. Vascular tissue also helps to support the plant's structure. The third system- the ground tissue-makes up the bulk of a plant, filling all of the spaces between the dermal and vascular tissue systems. Ground tissue functions in photosynthesis, storage, and support.
5  Whether you're a hunt-and-peck typist or a Rachmaninoff of the keyboard, you will make mistakes. But it's not just your eyes catching typos when you see them on the screen. Your hands know when you mess up too. That’s according to a study in the journal Science. [Gordon Logan and Matthew Crump, "Cognitive Illusions of Authorship Reveal Hierarchical Error Detection in Skilled Typists"]

　　Researchers recruited expert typists—college students, of course—and showed them 600 five-letter words, one at a time. And they asked the students to type those words as quickly and accurately as possible. But sometimes, the researchers inserted typos in the word as it appeared on screen, when the students hadn’t made one. Other times they automatically corrected typos the students did make.

　　And the students tended to believe the screen. So if a typo had been added, they figured they must have messed up. If a typo had been corrected they thought they typed it right. But the hands didn't fall for it. When the fingers slipped up, they paused a split second longer than usual before typing the next letter. But they didn't pause when fake typos appeared on-screen only. So we apparently have two discrete mechanisms guarding against typing errors, one visual, the other tactile. To fox quick brown fixes. To fix quick brown foxes.
6  Modern humans could have reached East Asia much earlier than believed, according to new evidence.

　　An international team analysed fossil teeth and part of a jaw unearthed in southern China in 2007.

　　In the journal PNAS, the scientists say the fragments belonged to a "modern" human who lived 100,000 years ago.

　　The study is likely to be controversial: the earliest humans previously known from East Asia were half this age.

　　Wu Liu from the Chinese Academy of Sciences led the predominantly Chinese team that worked at Zhirendong (Zhiren Cave) fossil site.

　　US scientist Erik Trinkaus from Washington University in St Louis and R Lawrence Edwards from the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis also took part in the study.

　　Living together

　　Dr Trinkaus explained to BBC News that the ancient remains mean modern humans co-existed with our closest relatives - Neanderthals and Neanderthal-like people - across Asia.

　　"There are some archaic features in the specimen and that suggests to us that these are not just simply modern humans coming out of Eastern Africa, but somewhere along the way they probably intermixed with regional groups of archaic humans," Professor Trinkaus told BBC News.

　　"Previous evidence for co-existence was basically between Europe and Western Asia and adjacent part of Africa, but what this suggests is that the geographical range of co-existence spread all the way across Asia, which is an enormous difference.

　　"This is the first evidence for that."

　　The remains were spotted by scientist Chang-Zhu Jin during excavations at a site in Southern China.

　　The researcher was able to distinguish the valuable fossils among "the bones of a whole bunch of other mammals from a little over a 100,000 years ago".

　　Professor Trinkaus said that in terms of human evolution, the remains showed distinctive modern human features - a lower jaw with a distinctive chin.

　　"That means that modern humans spread across at least southern Asia some 100,000 years ago," added the scientist.

　　"It is interesting because we get the persistence of archaic humans, pre-modern humans, further north across all of Eurasia for another 60,000 years. "It means that there was something that allowed these modern humans to spread across southern Asia, but at the same time they weren't able to spread further north across Asia or into Europe - they did not [have] this overwhelming superiority that is sometimes attributed to modern humans since they clearly didn't spread across all of the old world at this time period."

　　Possible controversy

　　Professor Fred Smith of Illinois State University reviewed the paper for PNAS journal. He said that it was possible such a significant discovery could generate controversy.

　　"It will remain somewhat controversial because it's only one specimen at one site, but the fact is that it is a very important piece of the puzzle," he told BBC News.

　　"There's always a possibility that a date is wrong or that something has gone wrong. I don't see any [such] indication, but there's always a possibility of complications that weren't noticed or weren't completely understood.

　　"I'm sure that there will be some controversy, some people that are going to say: 'Well, this is all well and good, but we need more information to be certain'."

　　To make sure the study is correct, Professor Smith said scientists will continue their efforts to find more specimens of modern human fossils from southern China.
7  Up to the beginning of the twentieth century, the nervous system was thought to control all communication within the body and the resulting integration of behavior. Scientists had determined that nerves ran, essentially, on electrical impulses. These impulses were thought to be the engine for thought, emotion, movement, and internal processes such as digestion. However, experiments by William Bayliss and Ernest Starling on the chemical secretin, which is produced in the small intestine when food enters the stomach, eventually challenged that view. From the small intestine, secretin travels through the bloodstream to the pancreas. There, it stimulates the release of digestive chemicals. In this fashion, the intestinal cells that produce secretin ultimately regulate the production of different chemicals in a different organ, the pancreas.

　　Such a coordination of processes had been thought to require control by the nervous system; Bayliss and Starling showed that it could occur through chemicals alone. This discovery spurred Starling to coin the term hormone to refer to secretin, taking it from the Greek word hormon, meaning “to excite” or “to set in motion.” A hormone is a chemical produced by one tissue to make things happen elsewhere.

　　As more hormones were discovered, they were categorized, primarily according to the process by which they operated on the body. Some glands (which make up the endocrine system) secrete hormones directly into the bloodstream. Such glands include the thyroid and the pituitary. The exocrine system consists of organs and glands that produce substances that are used outside the bloodstream, primarily for digestion. The pancreas is one such organ, although it secretes some chemicals into the blood and thus is also part of the endocrine system.
8  Much has been learned about hormones since their discovery. Some play such key roles in regulating bodily processes or behavior that their absence would cause immediate death. The most abundant hormones have effects that are less obviously urgent but can be more far-reaching and difficult to track: They modify moods and affect human behavior, even some behavior we normally think of as voluntary. Hormonal systems are very intricate. Even minute amounts of the right chemicals can suppress appetite, calm aggression, and change the attitude of a parent toward a child. Certain hormones accelerate the development of the body, regulating growth and form; others may even define an individual’s personality characteristics. The quantities and proportions of hormones produced change with age, so scientists have given a great deal of study to shifts in the endocrine system over time in the hopes of alleviating ailments associated with aging.

　　In fact, some hormone therapies are already very common. A combination of estrogen and progesterone has been prescribed for decades to women who want to reduce mood swings, sudden changes in body temperature, and other discomforts caused by lower natural levels of those hormones as they enter middle age. Known as hormone replacement therapy (HRT), the treatment was also believed to prevent weakening of the bones. At least one study has linked HRT with a heightened risk of heart disease and certain types of cancer. HRT may also increase the likelihood that blood clots—dangerous because they could travel through the bloodstream and block major blood vessels—will form. Some proponents of HRT have tempered their enthusiasm in the face of this new evidence, recommending it only to patients whose symptoms interfere with their abilities to live normal lives.

　　Human growth hormone may also be given to patients who are secreting abnormally low amounts on their own. Because of the complicated effects growth hormone has on the body, such treatments are generally restricted to children who would be pathologically small in stature without it. Growth hormone affects not just physical size but also the digestion of food and the aging process. Researchers and family physicians tend to agree that it is foolhardy to dispense it in cases in which the risks are not clearly outweighed by the benefits.
9  Silk is the strongest natural fiber in the world, as far as we know. Scientists long to understand just how exactly the silkworm manages the process of silk weaving, so they can replicate the process in order to manufacture such things as high-strength and high-performance materials for sports and law enforcement.

　　Though our understanding of the silk-making process is not yet complete, scientists do know that the key to making silk lies in the animal’s careful managing of the water content in its silk glands.

　　Silk gets its strength from its proteins. Parts of the proteins are hydrophilic, or water-loving; and parts are hydrophobic, or water-fearing. For some time it was a mystery how silkworms managed to convert these proteins into silk threads without the proteins crystallizing before the animal is ready to spin them. Premature crystallization would clog up their silk glands, which would likely prove fatal to the little creatures.

　　The answer lies in the silkworm’s slowly decreasing the water content in its silk glands and in the proteins’ ability to retain water, keeping the solution soluble up until it is spun. As the water decreases, the water-loving parts of the proteins fold together in chains, forcing the water-fearing parts together.

　　As the water level continues to drop, the folded chains of silk push together more and more to form larger and larger gel-like structures. All the while the water-loving parts retain enough water so that the solution does not crystallize prematurely, before there is enough of the material to begin spinning.

10  Women are at their happiest at the age of 28, a study has found.

　　Researchers discovered women feel most confident and happy with their love life and body shape shortly before they reach 30.

　　It is also the period in their life when they enjoy the best sex – but the happiness is relatively shortlived.

　　Because by the time they have turned 30 they start worrying about growing old and developing grey hair and wrinkles.

　　A spokesman for home hair colour brand Clairol Perfect 10, which carried out the study of 4,000 women, said: "Everything in life hits its peak at some point, and nearly reaching your thirties isn't so bad now.

　　"The age of 28 has been pinpointed as the time in a woman's life their hair looks the best, body shape is at its peak and confidence is at an all-time high.

　　The survey of 25-65 year olds recorded the age at which women were most content in 12 key areas of their life.

　　According to the results, women are happiest in their career at 29 and most content with their relationships one year later at 30, despite having the best sex at 28.

　　But all is not lost for the over 30s, as women feel most content with their financial situation at 33 and at ease with their home and family life at 32.

　　The research found two thirds of women feel they age more quickly than men. It also emerged that 56 per cent of women worry about losing their looks as they get older

　　But drinking from the fountain of youth doesn't come cheap as the average woman will spend ￡600 every year on beauty products in a bid to stay looking young.

　　The research also found women spend over five days a year on their beauty routine – an average of 22 minutes every day.